The Brahmic doctrine of castes.  Jesus repudiates it and teaches human
equality.  The priests are offended and drive him from the temple.  He
abides with the sudras and teaches them.

1 Four years the Jewish boy abode in temple Jagannath.

2 One day he sat among the priests and said to them, Pray, tell me all
about your views of castes; why do you say that all men are not equal
in the sight of God?

3 A master of their laws stood forth said, The Holy One whom we call
Brahm, made men to suit himself, and men should not complain.

4 In the beginning days of human life Brahm spoke, and four men stood
before his face.

5 Now, from the mouth of Parabrahm the first man came; and he was
white, was like the Brahm himself; a brahman he was called.

6 And he was high and lifted up; above all want he stood; he had no
need of toil.

7 And he was called the priest of Brahm, the holy one to act for Brahm
in all affairs of earth.

8 The second man was red, and from the hand of Parabrahm he came; and
he was called shatriya.

9 And he was made to be the king, the ruler and the warrior, whose
highest ordained duty was protection of the priest.

10 And from the inner parts of Parabrahm the third man came; and he
was called a wisya.

11 He was a yellow man, and his it was to till the soil, and keep the
flocks and herbs.

12 And from the feet of Parabrahm the fourth man came; and he was
black; and he was called the sudra, one of low estate.

13 The sudra is the servant of the race of men; he has no rights that
others need respect; he may not hear the Vedas read, and it means
death to him to look into the face of priest, or king, and naught but
death can free him from his state of servitude.

14 And Jesus said, Then Parabrahm is not a God of justice and of
right; for with his own strong hand he has exalted one and brought
another low.

15 And Jesus said no more to them, but looking up to heaven he said,

16 My Father-God, who was, and is, and ever more shall be; who holds
within thy hands the scales of justice and of right;

17 Who in the boundlessness of love has made all men to equal be.  The
white, the black, the yellow and the red can look up in thy face and
say, Our Father-God.

18 Thou Father of the human race, I praise thy name.

19 And all the priests were angered by the words which Jesus spoke;
they rushed upon him, seized him, and would have done him harm.

20 But then Lamaas raised his hand and said, You priests of Brahm,
beware! you know not what you do; wait till you know the God this
youth adores.

21 I have beheld this boy at prayer when light above the light of sun
surrounded him.  Beware!  his God may be more powerful than Brahm.

22 If Jesus speaks the truth, if he is right, you cannot force him to
desist; if he is wrong and you are right, his words will come to
naught, for right is might, and in the end it will prevail.

23 And then the priests refrained from doing Jesus harm; but one spoke
out and said,

24 Within this holy place has not this reckless youth done violence to
Parabrahm? The law is plain; it says, He who reviles the name of Brahm
shall die.

25 Lamaas pled for Jesus' life; and then the priests just seized a
scourge of cords and drove him from the place.

26 And Jesus went his way and found a shelter with the black and
yellow men, the servants and the tillers of the soil.

27 To them he first made known the gospel of equality; he told them of
the Brotherhood of Man, the Fatherhood of God.

28 The common people heard him with delight, and learned to pray, Our
Father-God who art in heaven.
