Jesus goes to the wilderness for self-examination, where he remains
forty days.  Is subjected to three temptations. He overcomes.  Returns
to the camps of John and begins teaching.

1 The harbinger had paved the way; the Logos had been introduced to
men as love made manifest, and he must now begin his Christine
ministry.

2 And he went forth into the wilderness to be alone with God that he
might look into his inner heart, and note its strength and worthiness.

3 And with himself he talked; he said, My lower self is strong; by
many ties I am bound down to carnal life.

4 Have I the strength to overcome and give my life a willing sacrifice
for men?

5 When I shall stand before the face of men, and they demand a proof
of my messiahship, what will I say?

6 And then the tempter came and said, If you be son of God, command
these stones to turn to bread.

7 And Jesus said, Who is it that demands a test?  It is no sign that
one is son of God because he does a miracle; the devils can do mightly
things.

8 Did not the black magicians do great things before the Pharaohs?

9 My words and deeds in all the walks of life shall be the proof of my
messiahship.

10 And then the temptor said, If you will go into Jerusalem, and from
the temple pinnacle cast down yourself to earth, the people will
believe that you are the Messiah sent from God.

11 This you can surely do; for did not David say, He gives his angels
hands will they uphold lest you should fall?

12 And Jesus said, I may not tempt the Lord, my God.

13 And then the tempter said, Look forth upon the world; behold its
honors and its fame!  Behold its pleasures and its wealth!

14 If you will give your life for these they shall be yours.

15 But Jesus said, Away from me all tempting thoughts.  My heart is
fixed; I spurn this carnal self with all its vain ambition and its
pride.

16 For forty days did Jesus wrestle with his carnal self; his higher
self prevailed.  He then was hungry, but his friends had found him and
they ministered to him.

17 Then Jesus left the wilderness, and in the consciousness of Holy
Breath, he came unto the camps of John and taught.
