Introduction

by Eva S. Dowling, Ph.D., Scribe to the Messenger

The full title of this book is "The Aquarian Age Gospel of Jesus, the Christ of the Piscean Age," and the critical reader is apt to ask a number of pertinent questions concerning it.  Among the many anticipated questions these are perhaps the most important:

1 What is an Age?
2 What is the Piscean Age?
3 What is the Aquarian Age?
4 What is meant by the Christ as the word is used in this book?
5 What relationship existed between Jesus of Nazareth and the Christ?
6 Who is Levi, the transcriber of this book?
7 What are the Akashic Records?

1 What is an Age?  Astronomers tell us that our sun and his family of
planets resolve around a central sun, which is millions of miles
distant, and that it requires something less than 26000 years to make
one revolution.  His orbit is called the Zodiac, which is divided into
twelve signs, familiarly known as Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo,
Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces.
It requires our Solar System a little more than 2100 years to pass
through one of these signs, and this time is the measurement of an Age
or Dispensation.  Because of what astronomers call "the Precession of
the Equinoxes" the movement of the sun through the signs of the Zodiac
is in order reverse from that given above.

Exact Time of the Beginning of an Age. Regarding this matter there is
a disagreement among astronomers; but in this Introduction we are not
called upon to give the reasons of the various investigators for their
opinions; there are enough well-authenticated facts for our present
purposes.  It is conceded by all critical students that the sun
entered the zodiacal sign Taurus in the days of our historic Adam when
the Taurian Age began; that Abraham lived not far from the beginning
of the Arian Age, when the sun entered the sign Aries.  About the time
of the rise of the Roman empire the sun entered the sign Pisces, the
Fishes, and the Piscean Age began, so that early in this Age Jesus of
Nazareth lived.

2 What is the Piscean Age?  This question requires further
consideration.  The Piscean Age is identical with the Christian
Dispensation.  The word `Pisces' means `fish'.  The sign is known as a
water sign, and the Piscean Age has been distinctly the age of the
fish and its element, water.

In the establishment of their great institutions, John the Harbinger
and Jesus both introduced the rite of water baptism, which has been
used in some form in all the so-called Christian Churches and cults,
even to the present time.  Water is the true symbol of purification.
Jesus himself said to the Harbinger before he was baptized: "All the
men must be washed, symbolic of the cleansing of the soul." (Aquarian
Gospel 64:7)

Fish was a Christian Symbol.  In the earlier centuries of the
Christian Dispensation the fish was everywhere used as a symbol.  In
his remarkable book, "Christian Iconography," Didron says:

"The fish, in the opinion of antiquarians generally, is the symbol of
Jesus Christ.  The fish is sculptured upon a number of Christian
monuments, and more particularly upon the ancient sarcophagi.  It is
also upon medals, bearing the name of our Savior and also upon
engraved stones, cameos and intaglios.  The fish is also to be
remarked upon the amulets worn suspended from the necks by children,
and upon ancient glasses and sculptured lamps.

"Baptismal fonts are more particularly ornamented with the fish.  The
fish is constantly exhibited placed upon a dish in the middle of the
table, at the Last Supper, among the loaves, knives and cups used at
the banquet."

In the writings of Tertullian we find this statement: "We are little
fishes in Christ our great fish."

The last two thousand years, comprising the Piscean Age, has certainly
been one of water and the many uses of that element have been
emphasized, and sea and lake and river navigation has been brought to
a high degree of efficiency.

3 What is the Aquarian Age? The human race is today standing upon the
cusp of the Piscean-Aquarian Ages.  Aquarius is an air sign and the
New Age is already noted for remarkable inventions for the use of air,
electricity, magnetism, etc.  Men navigate the air as fish do the sea,
and send their thoughts spinning around the world with the speed of
lightning.

The word `Aquarius' is derived from the Latin word `aqua', meaning
`water'.  Aquarians is, however, the `water bearer', and the symbol of
the sign, which is the eleventh sign of the Zodiac, is a man carrying
in his right hand a pitcher of water.  Jesus referred to the beginning
of the Aquarian Age in these words:

"And then the man who bears the pitcher will walk forth across an arc
of heaven; the sign and signet of the Son of Man will stand forth in
the eastern sky.  The wise will then lift up their heads and know that
the redemption of the earth is near." (Aquarian Gospel 157:29,30)

The Aquarian Age is preeminently a spiritual age, and the spiritual
side of the great lessons that Jesus gave to the world may now be
comprehended by multitudes of people, for the many are now coming into
an advanced stage of spiritual consciousness; so with much propriety
this book is called "The Aquarian (or Spiritual) Gospel of Jesus, the
Christ."

An Important Event. The transfer of dominion from one Age to another
is an important event in the world of Cherubim and Seraphim.  Among
the manuscripts of Levi we have found a most remarkable paper
describing the transfer of dominion from the Piscean Age to the
Aquarian Age, but it is difficult to determine whether it is a recital
of facts or a prophetic statement.  We reproduce the paper in full.

++

THE CUSP OF THE AGES

In Spirit I was caught away into the realms of Akasha; I stood alone
within the circle of the sun.

And there I found the scret spring that opens up the door to Wisdom
and an understanding heart.

I entered in and then I knew.

I saw the four and twenty Cherubim and Seraphim that guard the circle
of the sun, the mightly ones who were proclaimed by masters long ago
"the four and twenty ancient ones."

I heard the names of every Cherubim and Seraphim, and learned that
every sign in all the Zodiac is ruled by two -- a Cherubim and
Seraphim.

And then I stood upon the cusp where Ages meet.  The Piscean Age had
passed; the Aquarian Age had just begun.

I saw the guardian Spirits of the Piscean Age; Ramasa is the Cherubim;
Vacabiel is Seraphim.

I saw the guardian Spirits of the Aquarian Age, and Archer is the
Cherubim; Sakmaquil is the Seraphim.

These four great spirits of the Triune God stood close together on the
cusp, and in the presence of the sacred Three -- the God of Might, the
God of Wisdom, and the God of Love -- the scepter of Domain, of Might,
of Wisdom and of Love was there transferred.

I heard the charges of the Triune God; but these I may not now reveal.

I heard the history of the Piscean Age from Piscean Cherubim and
Seraphim, and when I took my pen to write, Ramasa said:

"Not now, my son, not now; but you may write it down for men when men
have learned the sacred laws of Brotherhood, of Peace on earth, good
will to every living thing."

And then I heard the Aquarian Cherubim and Seraphim proclaim the
Gospel of the coming Age, the age of Wisdom, of the Son of Man.

And when the crown was lifted from the head of Ramasa and placed upon
the head of Archer of the Aquarian age; and when the royal scepter was
transferred from Seraphim Vacabiel to Seraphim Sakmaquil there was
deep silence in the courts of heaven.

And then the goddess Wisdom spoke, and with her hands outstretched she
poured the benedictions of the Holy Breath upon the rules of Aquarius.

I may not write the words she spoke, but I may tell the Gospel of the
coming age that Archer told when he received the crown.

And I may breathe to men the song of praise that Seraphim Sakmaquil
sung when she received the royal scepter of the newborn age.

This Gospel I will tell, and I will sing this song in every land, to
all the people, tribes and tongues of earth.

++

4 What is Meant by "the Christ," as the Word is Used in This Book?
The word `Christ' is derived from the Greek word `Kristos' and means
`anointed'.  It is identical with the Hebrew word `Messiah'.  The word
`Christ', per se, does not refer to any particular person; every
anointed person is christed.  When the definite article "the" is
placed before the word `christ' a definite personality is indicated,
and this personality is none other than a member of the Trinity, the
Son who had a glory with the Father-Mother before the worlds were
formed.

According to the teachings of all ancient masters this Son is Love; so
the Christ is Love, and Love is God, since God is Love.

Another remarkable manuscript found in Levi's Akashic portfolio gives
the clearest possible ideal of the Christ, or Love of God.  It is
presumed that this manuscript is a direct transcription from the
Akashic Reocrds and its importance demands its reproduction here in
full.

++

THE CHRIST

Before creation was, the Christ walked with the Faster God and Mother
God in Akasha.

The Christ is son, the only son begotten by Almighty God, the God of
Force and God omniscient, God of thought; and Christ is God, the God
of Love.

Without the Christ there was no light.  Through Christ all life was
manifest; and so through him all things were done, and naught was done
in forming worlds or peopling worlds without the Christ.

Christ is the Logos of Infinities and through the Word alone are Thought and Force made manifest.

The Son is called the Christ, before the Son, the Love, the universal
Love, was set apart, ordained to be creator, Lord, preserver and
redeemer of all things, of everything that is, or evermore will be.

Through Christ, the protoplast, the earth, the plant, the beast, the
man, the angel and the cherubim took up their stations on their planes
of life.

Through Christ they are preserved; and if they fall it is the Christ
who lifts them up; and if they sell themselves to sin the Christ
redeems.

Now Christ, the universal Love, pervades all spaces of infinity, and
so there is no end to love.

From the great heart of Love unnumbered spirits were sent forth to
demonstrate the height, the depth, the width, the boundlessness of
Love.

To every world and star and moon and sun a master spirit of this Love
divine was sent; and all were full anointed with the oil of
helpfulness, and each became a Christ.

All glorious in his majesty is Christ, who spreads the pure white robe
of Love o'er all the planes of earth -- The Christ of earth, its
heaven, its graves.

In course of time the protoplast, the earth, the plant, the best, the
man sold out their birthrights unto sin; but Christ was present to
redeem.

Hid in the holiest place in all infinities is locked the scroll that
bears the record of the purposes of God, the Triune God, and there we
read:

Perfection is the ultimate of life.  A seed is perfect in its
embryotic life, but it is destined to unfold, to grow.

Into the soil of every plane these seeds, which were the Thoughts of
God, were cast -- the seeds of protoplast, of earth, of plant, of
beast, of man, of angel and of cherubim, and they who sowed the seeds,
through Christ, ordained that they should grow, and should return at
last, by effort of unnumbered years, to the great granary of thought,
and each be a perfection of its kind.

And in the boundless blessedness of Love the man was made the Lord of
protoplast, of earth, of plant, of beast; and Christ proclaimed: Man
shall have full dominion over everything that is upon these planes of
life; and it was so.

And he who gave the lordship unto man declared that he must rule by
Love.

But men grew cruel and they lost their power to rule, and protoplast,
and earth, and plant and beast become at enmity with man; he lost his
heritage; but Christ was present to redeem.

But man had lost his consciousness of right; he could no longer
comprehend the boundlessness of Love; he could see naught but self,
and things of self; but Christ was there to seek the lost and save.

So that he might be close to man in all the ways of life, that man
might comprehend the mighty spirit of the Love, the Christ of earth
made manifest to human eyes and ears by taking his abode in some pure
person, well prepared by many lives to be a fit abiding place of Love.

Thus Christ made manifest Love's power to save; but men forgot so
soon, and so Christ must manifest again, and then again.

And ever since man took his place in form of flesh the Christ has been
manifest in flesh at first of every age.

++

5 What relationship existed between Jesus of Nazareth and the Christ?
Orthodox Christian ecclesiastics tell us that Jesus of Nazareth and
the Christ were one; that the true name of this remarkable person was
Jesus Christ.  They tell us that this man of Galilee was the very
eternal God clothed in flesh of man that men might see his glory.  Of
course this doctrine is wholly at variance with the teachings of Jesus
himself and of his apostles.  The Aquarian Masters in council have
formulated an answer to this question that so well covers all the
information required that we give it in full:

++

Jesus was an ideal Jew, born in Bethlehem of Judea.  His mother was a
beautiful Jewish girl named Mary.  As a child Jesus differed but
little from other children only that in past lives he had overcome
carnal propensities to such an extent that he could be tempted like
others and not yield.  Paul was right when to the Hebrews he said: "He
was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin." -- Hebrews
4:15.

Jesus suffered as other men suffer, and was made perfect through
suffering; for this is the only was to perfection.  His life was an
example of attainment by the way of crosses and cruel treatment.  Paul
was right again when he said: "It became him, for whom are all things
and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons into glory to make
the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering." -- Hebrews
2:10.

In many respects Jesus was a remarkable child, for by ages of
strenuous preparation he was qualified to be an avatar, a savior of
the world, and from childhood he was endowed with superior wisdom and
was conscious of the fact that he was competent to lead the race into
the higher ways of spiritual living.  But he was conscious also of the
fact that he must attain the mastery by trials, buffetings,
temptations and sufferings.  And all his life was spent in attaining.
After his death, burial and resurrection he appeared in materialized
form before the Silent Brothers in the temple of Heliopolis, in Egypt,
and said:

"My human life was wholly given to bring my will to tune with the
deific will; when this was done my earthtasks all were done.

"You know that all my life was one great drama for the sons of men; a
pattern for the sons of men.  I lived to show the possibilities of
man.

"What I have done all men can do, and what I am all men shall be."
-- Aquarian Gospel 178: 43, 45, 46.

Jesus was the name of the man and it was the only appropriate name for
this kind of a man.  The word means Savior, and Jesus was in more
senses than one a savior.

The word `Christ' means "the anointed one," and then it is an official
title.  It means, The Master of Love.  When we say "Jesus the Christ"
we refer to the man and to his office; just as we do when we say
Edward, the King, or Lincoln, the President.  Edward was not always
King, and Lincoln was not always President, and Jesus was not always
Christ.  Jesus won his Christship by a strenuous life, and in the
Aquarian Gospel, chapter 55, we have a record of the events of his
christing, or receiving the degree Christ.  Here is where he was
coronated by the highest earth authorities as the Christ-King;
properly speaking, "The Master of Love"; and after this was done he
entered at once upon his Jedean and Galilean ministry.

We recognize the facts that Jesus was man and that Christ was God, so
that in very truth Jesus the Christ was the God-man of the ages.


The Nazarene's Testimony.  Jesus himself made the matter clear.  Once
when he was speaking to a congregation in Bethany the people called
him King and he stood forth and said:

"I am not sent to sit upon a throne to rule as Caesar rules; and you
may tell the ruler of the Jews that I am not a claimant for his
throne.

"Men call me Christ, and God has recognized the name; but Christ is
not a man.  The Christ is universal Love, and Love is King.

"This Jesus is but man who has been fitted by temptations overcome, by
trials multiform, to be the temple through which the Christ can
manifest to men.

"Then hear, you men of Israel, hear!  Look not upon the flesh; it is
not king.  Look to the Christ within who shall be formed in every one
of you, as he is formed in me.

"When you have purified your hearts by faith, the king will enter in
and you will see his face." -- Aquarian Gospel 68:10-14.

++

Surely this question has been answered.  Jesus was man; Christ was
Divine Love -- the Love of God; and after thirty years of strenuous
life the man had made his body fit to be the temple of the holy breath
and Love took full possession, and John well said when he declared:

"And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us and we beheld the
glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth."

6 Who was Levi, the Transcriber of this Book?  Regarding the
personality of Levi we are permitted to write but little.  Suffice it
to say that he is an American citizen, and has been a close student of
the religions of the world from childhood.  When but a boy he was
impressed with the sensitiveness of the finer ethers and believed that
in some manner they were sensitized plates on which sounds, even
thoughts, were recorded.  With avidity he entered into the deeper
studies of etheric vibration, determined to solve the great mysteries
of the heavens for himself.  Forty years he spent in study and silent
meditation, and then he found himself in that stage of spiritual
consciousness that permitted him to enter the domain of these
superfine ethers and become familiar with their mysteries.  He then
learned that the imaginings of his boyhood days were founded upon
veritable facts, and that every thought of every living thing is there
recorded.

In his manuscript entitled "The Cusp of the Ages," a part of which we
have already reproduced in this Introduction, we find the following
copy of the Commission, which Levi received from Visel, the Goddess of
Wisdom, or the Holy Breath.

++

LEVI'S COMMISSION

And then Visel the holy one stood forth and said:

"O Levi, son of man, behold, for you are called to be the message
bearer of the coming age -- the age of spirit blessedness.

"Give heed, O son of man, for men must know the Christ, the Love of
God; for Love is sovereign balm for all the wounds of men, the remedy
for every ill.

"And man must be endowed with Wisdom and with Power and with an
Understanding heart.

"Behold the Akasha!  Behold the Record Galleries of Visel where every
thought and word and deed of every living thing is written down.

"The needs of men are manifold, and men must know their needs.

"Now, Levi, hearken to my words: go forth into these mystic Galleries
and read.  There you will find a message for the world; for every man;
for every living thing.

"I breathe upon you now the Holy Breath; you will discriminate, and
you will know the lessons that these Record Books of God are keeping
now for men of this new age.

"This age will be an age of splendor and of light, because it is the
home age of the Holy Breath; and Holy Breath will testify anew for
Christ, the Logos of eternal Love.

"At first of every age this Logos is made manifest in flesh so man can
see and know and comprehend a Love that is not narrow, circumscribed.

"Twelve times in every revolution of the sun this christed Love of God
is made full manifest in flesh upon the planes of earth, and you may
read in Akasha the wondrous lessons that these Christs have taught to
men; but you shall publish not to men the lessons of the Christs of
ancient times.

"Now, Levi, message bearer of the Spirit Age, take up your pen and
write.

"Write full the story of The Christ who built upon the Solid Rock of
yonder circle of the sun -- the Christ whom men have known as Enoch
the Initiate.

"Write of his works as prophet, priest and seer; write of his life of
purity and love, and how he changed his carnal flesh to flesh divine
without descending through the gates of death.

"And you may write the story of Melchizedec, the Christ who lived when
Abram lived, and pointed out to men the way to life through sacrifice;
who gave his life a willing sacrifice for men.

"And you may write the story of the Prince of Peace, The Christ who
came as babe in Bethlehem, and traveled every way of life that man
must tread.

"He was despised, rejected and abused; was spit upon, was crucified,
was buried in a tumb; but he revived and rose a conqueror over death
that he might show the possibilities of man.

"A thousand times he said to men: `I came to show the possibilities of
man; what I have done all men may do, and what I am all men shall be.'

"These stories of The Christ will be enough, for they contain the true
philosophy of life, of death and of the resurrection of the dead.

"They show the spiral journey of the soul until the man of earth and
God are one forevermore."

++

Levi in Prophecy.  About two thousand years ago Elihu, who conducted a
school of the prophets in Zoan, Egypt, referred to Levi thus:

++

This age will comprehend but little of the works of Purity and Love;
but not a word is lost, for in the Book of God's Remembrance a
registry is made of every thought and word and deed.

And when the world is ready to receive, lo, God will send a messenger
to open up the book and copy from its sacred pages all the messages of
Purity and Love.

Then every man of earth will read the words of life in the language of
his native land, and men will see the light.

And man again will be at one with God. -- Aquarian Gospel 7: 25-28.

++

Further references to the personality of Levi are, seemingly,
unnecessary.  It matters but little who he is; his work in the
transcription of "the Aquarian Gospel of Jesus, the Christ," stands
unimpeachable.  The lessons of this book all bear the stamp of the
Nazarene, for no man except the world's greatest master could have
touched the high chords of divine Love and Wisdom which characterize
the pages of this marvelous book.

7 What are the Akashic Records?  `Akasha' is a Sanskrit word, and
means `primary substance', that out of which all things are formed.
According to Aquarian philosophy, it is the first stage of the
crystallization of spirit.  This philosophy recognizes the fact that
all primordial substance is spirit; that matter is spirit moving at a
lower rate of vibration, becoming, as one master expressed it, a
coagulum.

This Akashic, or primary substance, is of exquisite fineness and is so
sensitive that the slightest vibrations of an ether any place in the
universe register an indelible impression upon it.

This primal substance is not relegated to any particular part of the
universe, but is everywhere present.  It is in very fact the
"Universal Mind" of which our metaphysicians speak.

When the mind of man is in exact accord with the Universal Mind man
enters into a conscious recognition of these Akashic impressions, and
may collect them and translate them into any language of earth with
which he is familiar.

In the infinite One manifest we note the attributes of Force,
Intelligence and Love, and a person may be in full accord with one of
these attributes and not with the others.  One may enter fully into
the spirit of the God of Force and not be imbued with the spirit of
Intelligence; or one may be wholly absorbed with the spirit of Divine
Love and be far removed from both Intelligence and Force.
Furthermore, a person may neter fully into the consciousness of Holy
Breath, or Supreme Intelligence, and be not at all in rapport with
either Love or Force.  It is only from Universal Mind, which is
Supreme Intelligence, called by Oriental scholars the Akashic Records,
and by Hebrew masters, the Book of God's Remembrance, that knowledge
of any kind can be obtained.

`Consciousness'; we note three phases of it:

1 Consciousness of the omnipotence of God and man.
2 Christ consciousness, or consciousness of Divine Love.
3 Consciousness of the Holy Breath, or of Supreme Intelligence.

We must bear in mind that one of these phases of consciousness does
not necessarily imply either of the others.  People are frequently
found who are completely filled with the Love of God, are far advanced
in the science of Christ consciousness, who are absolutely ignorant;
have not the slightest conception of the laws of natural things or of
spiritual things; are not in rapport with the great Teacher which is
the Holy Spirit.

The Akashic Records.  The imperishable records of life, known as the
Akashic Records, are wholly in the domain of Supreme Intelligence, or
Universal Mind, and the Akashic Record reader must be in such close
touch with the Holy Spirit, or the Holy Breath, as the ancient masters
call this spirit of Supreme Intelligence, that every thought vibration
is instantly felt in every fibre of his being.

Differentiation.  Since all space is charged with the vibrations of
thoughts of all kinds how may the Akashic Record reader differentiate
and gather only the thoughts and life events of a particular person or
group of persons?

Event person has his own distinct vibration and when the reader fully
understands the law of discrimination his whole being is tuned for the
reception of the one particular tone and rhythm, and it is impossible
for any other tone or rhythm to make the slightest impression upon
him.  This principle is demonstrated in wireless telegraphy.

It required many years for Levi to learn the Law of Differentiation,
and to come in rapport with the tones and rhythms of Jesus of
Nazareth, Enoch and Melchizedec and their co-laborers.  But under the
direction of the Spirit of Supreme Intelligence, he has attained unto
this accomplishment, and now he instantly feels in all his being the
slightest vibrations that come from any of these great centers and, of
course, all of his transcriptions are true to the letter.

MAN

"What is man that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man that thou
visitest him?"  This was the earnest question of David, the Hebrew
Psalmist, and the 8th Psalm is given wholly to the contemplation of
man, the crowning work of manifest creation.  Among the many great
lessons that Levi has been permitted to gather from the Akashic
Records, or the Universal Mind, we find one on `Man' in which his
descent into physical matter and his final ascent into an eternal
oneness with God is so graphically described that it certainly merits
a place in this Introduction, and we give it in full:

++

Time never was when man was not.

If life of man at any time began a time would come when it would end.

The thoughts of God cannot be circumscribed.  No finite mind can
comprehend things infinite.

All finite things are subject unto change.  All finite things will
cease to be, because there was a time when they were not.

The bodies and the souls of men are finite things, and they will
change, yea, from the finite point of view the time will come when
they will be no more.

But man himself is not the body, nor the soul; he is a spirit and is
part of God.

Creative Fiat gave to man, to spirit man, a soul that he might
function on the plane of soul; gave him a body of the flesh, that he
might function on the place of things made manifest.

Why did creative Fiat give to spirit man a soul that he might function
on the plane of soul?

Why did creative Fiat give to soul a body of the flesh that it might
function on the plane of things that are made manifest?

Hear, now, ye worlds, dominions, powers and thrones!

Hear, now, ye cherubim, ye seraphim, ye angels and ye men!

Hear, now, O protoplast, and earth, and plant and beast!

Hear, now, ye creeping things of earth, ye fish that swim, ye birds
that fly!

Hear, now, ye winds that blow, ye thunders and ye lightnings of the
sky!

Hear, now, O everything that is, or was, or evermore will be, for
Wisdom speaks from out of the highest plane of spirit life:

"Man is a thought of God; all thoughts of God are infinite; they are
not measured up by time, for things that are concerned with time begin
and end.

"The thoughts of God are from the everlasting of the past unto the
never ending days to come -- And so is man, the Spirit-man.

"But man, like every other thought of God, was but a seed, a seed that
held within itself the potencies of God, just as the seed of any plant
of earth holds deep within itself the attributes of every part of that
especial plant.

"So spirit-man, as seed of God, held deep within himself the
attributes of every part of God.

"Now, seeds are perfect, yea, as perfect as the source from which they
come; but they are not unfolded into life made manifest.

"The child in utero is perfect as the mother is.

"So man, the seed, must be deep planted in a soil that he might grow,
unfold, as does the bud unfold to show the flower.

"The human seed that came forth from the heart of God was full
ordained to be the lord of plane of soul, and of the plane of things
made manifest.

"So God, the husbandman of everything that is, threw forth this human
seed into the soil of soul; it grew apace, and man became a living
soul; and he became the lord of all the kingdom of the soul.

"Hark, now, let every creature hear, The plane of soul is but the
ether of the spirit plane vibrating not so fast, and in the slower
rhythm of this plane the essence of life are manifest; the perfumes
and the odors, the true sensations and the all of love are manifest.

"And these soul attributes become a body beautiful.

"A multitude of lessons man must learn upon the plane of soul; and
here he tarries many ages until his lessons are all learned.

"Upon the boundary of the plane of soul the ether began to vibrate
slower still, and then the essences took on a garb; the perfumes and
the odors and the true sensations and the all of love were clothed in
flesh; and man was clothed in flesh.

"Perfected man must pass through all the ways of life, and so a carnal
nature was full manifest, a nature that sprang forth from fleshly
things.

"Without a foe a soldier never knows his strength, and thought must be
developed by the exercise of strength.

"And so this carnal nature soon became a foe that man must fight, that
he might be the strength of God made manifest.

"Let every living thing stand still and hear!

"Man is the lord of all the plane of manifests; of protoplast, of
mineral, of plant, of beast; but he has given up his birthright, just
to gratify his lower self, his carnal self.

"But man will full regain his lost estate, his heritage; but he must
do it in a conflict that cannot be told in words.

"Yea, he must suffer trials and temptations manifold; but let him know
that cherubim and seraphim that rule the stations of the sun, and
spirits of the mighty God who rule the solar stars are his protectors
and his guides, and they will lead to victory.

"Man will be fully saved, redeemed, perfected by the things he suffers
on the plane of flesh, and on the plane of soul.

"When man has conquered carnal things his garb of flesh will then have
served its purpose well and it will fall, will be no more.

"Then he will stand untrammeled on the plane of soul where he must
full complete his victories."

Unnumbered foes will stand before the man upon the plane of soul;
there he must overcome, yea, overcome them every one.

Thus hope will ever be his beacon light; there is no failure for the
human soul, for God is leading on and victory is sure.

Man cannot die; the spirit man is one with God, and while God lives
man cannot die.

When man has conquered every foe upon the plane of soul the seed will
have full opened out, will have unfolded in the Holy Breath.

The garb of soul will then have served its purpose well, and man will
need it never more, and it will pass and be no more.

And man will then attain unto the blessedness of perfectness and be at
one with God.
